# How-to-Talk-Investing

August 22, 2020

I appreciate comments. Shoot me an email at noel_s_cruz@yahoo.com!

Hire me!

I Love Math, hehehe!

British economist John Maynard Keynes helped establish reasonable expectations
about the future. He guided us to point out that long-term expectation for stocks
is a combination of enterprise("forecasting the prospective yield of assets over
their whole life") and speculation("forecasting the psychology of the market").

The shorter Keynes sentence is: past experiences cannot totally apply to future
inductive arguments.

It can be proven mathematically if we divide stock market returns into two parts:
1) investment return, consisting of the initial dividend yields plus subsequent,
and 2) speculative return, the impact of changing price/earings multiples on 
stock prices. Calculations show annual total return on stocks of 9.5 % reveals
investment return created it entirely and only 0.5 percentage points created by
speculation.

Moral of the story is: In the long run, stock returns depend almost entirely on 
investment returns. The perception of investors, reflected by speculative 
returns, counts for little.

In my native vernacular, tagalog, "Mahirap manghula, hindi tayo mind-readers at
madalas mapusok ang puso".

"Accurately forecasting short-term swings in investor emotions is not possible. 
But forecasting the long-term economics of investing has carried remarkably high
odds of success."

Another academic guru explains: "Investing consists of two different games. One game 
is real market. Where real companies spend real money to make & sell real products
and services, and if they play with real skill, earn real profits and pay real
dividends. This game also requires real strategy, determination, and expertise;
real innovation and real foresight." The other game is the expectations market.
Here, "prices are not set by real things like sales margins or profits. In the 
short term, prices go up only when the expectations of investors rise, not
necessarily when sales, margins, or profits rise."

In my own words, "Investing decisions do have issues like "Doesn't make common
sense to me". And someone said "The stock market is a giant distraction to the 
business of investing."

I included some posts for reference.

https://github.com/noey2020/How-to-Double-Your-Money-in-5years

https://github.com/noey2020/How-to-Talk-Matlab

I appreciate comments. Shoot me an email at noel_s_cruz@yahoo.com!

Hire me!

Noel
